Revamp Service Bindings docs for RPC (#13252)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/service-bindings/rpc.md

---
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: RPC (WorkerEntrypoint)
meta:
  title: Service bindings - RPC (WorkerEntrypoint)

>   description: Facilitate Worker-to-Worker communication via RPC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Facilitate Worker-to-Worker communication via RPC.
```

---

# Service Bindings — RPC

[Service bindings](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/service-bindings) allow one Worker to call into another, without going through a publicly-accessible URL.

> You can use Service bindings to create your own internal APIs that your Worker makes available to other Workers. This is done by extending the built-in `WorkerEntrypoint` class, and adding your own public methods. These public methods can then be directly called by other Workers on your Cloudflare account that declare a [binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings) to this Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Service bindings to create your own internal APIs that your Worker makes available to other Workers. This can be done by extending the built-in `WorkerEntrypoint` class, and adding your own public methods. These public methods can then be directly called by other Workers on your Cloudflare account that declare a [binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings) to this Worker.
```

The [RPC system in Workers](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc) is designed feel as similar as possible to calling a JavaScript function in the same Worker. In most cases, you should be able to write code in the same way you would if everything was in a single Worker.

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> You can also use RPC to communicate between Workers and [Durable Objects](/durable-objects/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use RPC to communicate between Workers and [Durable Objects](/durable-objects/).
```
```suggestion
You can also use RPC to communicate between Workers and [Durable Objects](/durable-objects/best-practices/create-durable-object-stubs#rpc-methods).
```

{{</Aside>}}

## Example

For example, the following Worker implements the public method `add(a, b)`:

{{<render file="_service-binding-rpc-example.md" productFolder="workers">}}

You do not need to learn, implement, or think about special protocols to use the RPC system. The client, in this case Worker A, calls Worker B and tells it to execute a specific procedure using specific arguments that the client provides. This is accomplished with standard JavaScript classes.

## The `WorkerEntrypoint` Class

To provide RPC methods from your Worker, you must extend the `WorkerEntrypoint` class, as shown in the example below:

```js
---
filename: index.js
---
import { WorkerEntrypoint } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class MyWorker extends WorkerEntrypoint {
  async add(a, b) { return a + b; }
}
```

> A new instance of the class `MyWorker` is created every time the Worker is called. Note that even though the Worker is implemented as a class, it is still stateless — the class instance only lasts for the duration of the invocation. If you need to persist or coordinate state in Workers, you should use [Durable Objects](/durable-objects).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new instance of the class is created every time the Worker is called. Note that even though the Worker is implemented as a class, it is still stateless — the class instance only lasts for the duration of the invocation. If you need to persist or coordinate state in Workers, you should use [Durable Objects](/durable-objects).
```

### Bindings (`env`)

The [`env`](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings) object is exposed as a class property of the `WorkerEntrypoint` class.

For example, a Worker that declares a binding to the [environment variable](/workers/configuration/environment-variables/) `GREETING`:

```toml
---
filename: wrangler.toml
---
name = "my-worker"

[vars]
GREETING = "Hello"
```

Can access it by calling `this.env.GREETING`:

```js
import { WorkerEntrypoint } from "cloudflare:workers";

> export class MyWorker extends WorkerEntrypoint {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export default class extends WorkerEntrypoint {
```

  async greet(name) {
    return this.env.GREETING + name;
  }
}
```

You can use any type of [binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings) this way.

### Lifecycle methods (`ctx`)

The [`ctx`](/workers/runtime-apis/context) object is exposed as a class property of the `WorkerEntrypoint` class.

For example, you can extend the lifetime of the invocation context by calling the `waitUntil()` method:

```js
import { WorkerEntrypoint } from "cloudflare:workers";

> export class MyWorker extends WorkerEntrypoint {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export default class extends WorkerEntrypoint {
```

  async signup(email, name) {
    // sendEvent() will continue running, even after this method returns a value to the caller
    this.ctx.waitUntil(this.#sendEvent("signup", email))
    // Perform any other work
    return "Success";
  }

  async #sendEvent(eventName, email) {
    //...
  }
}
```

## Named entrypoints

> TODO: Example

Reviewer: - [ ] @GregBrimble

Author: Leaving here so I remember where it lives and where to link to

https://github.com/cloudflare/js-rpc-and-entrypoints-demo

Use this when you want to perform other work without blocking giving a response to the client Worker that called your Entrypoint Worker. For example, you might return a response immediately, but fire off an event to an analytics provider:

```js
import { WorkerEntrypoint } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class MyWorker extends WorkerEntrypoint {
  async signup(email, name) {
    // sendEvent() will continue running, even after this method returns a value to the caller
    this.ctx.waitUntil(this.#sendEvent("signup", email))
    // Perform any other work
    return "Success";
  }

  async #sendEvent(eventName, email) {
    // Send event by making a subrequest with fetch()
  }
}
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}
[Cloudflare Queues](/queues/) and [Tail Workers](/workers/observability/logging/tail-workers/) are purpose-built options for performing work out-of-band, without blocking returning a response back to the client Worker. In many cases, you can use them instead of `ctx.waitUntil()`.
{{</Aside>}}

## Further reading

> {{<directory-listing folderDirectory="/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/" >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{<directory-listing folderDirectory="/workers/runtime-apis/rpc/"  showDescriptions="true">}}
```

---

# Service Bindings — RPC

[Service bindings](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/service-bindings) allow one Worker to call into another, without going through a publicly-accessible URL.

You can use Service bindings to create your own internal APIs that your Worker makes available to other Workers. This can be done by extending the built-in `WorkerEntrypoint` class, and adding your own public methods. These public methods can then be directly called by other Workers on your Cloudflare account that declare a [binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings) to this Worker.

The [RPC system in Workers](/workers/runtime-apis/rpc) is designed feel as similar as possible to calling a JavaScript function in the same Worker. In most cases, you should be able to write code in the same way you would if everything was in a single Worker.

{{<Aside type="note">}}
You can also use RPC to communicate between Workers and [Durable Objects](/durable-objects/best-practices/create-durable-object-stubs/#rpc-methods).
{{</Aside>}}

## Example

For example, the following Worker implements the public method `add(a, b)`:

{{<render file="_service-binding-rpc-example.md" productFolder="workers">}}

> You do not need to learn, implement, or think about special protocols to use the RPC system. The client, in this case Worker A, calls Worker B and tells it to execute a specific procedure using specific arguments that the client provides. This is accomplished with standard JavaScript classes.

Reviewer 2: hmm, this isn't entirely true is it? For instance, argument and return values must be serializable, async context is not preserved, errors thrown in the remote won't have stacks propagated, etc. So while the user may not have to think about the underlying on-the-wire protocol details, there are limitations they need to learn and think about when using this model.

Author: I think statement specific to "protocols" is accurate. You do have to learn system. But not new protocol — it is all JS language constructs.

    await this.env.D1.prepare("INSERT INTO users (username) VALUES (?)")
      .bind(username)
      .run();
  }

  async deleteUser(username) {
    await this.env.D1.prepare("DELETE FROM users WHERE username = ?")
      .bind(username)
      .run();
  }
}

export class UserEntrypoint extends WorkerEntrypoint {
  async getTasks(userId) {
    return await this.env.D1.prepare(
      "SELECT title FROM tasks WHERE user_id = ?"
    )
      .bind(userId)
      .all();
  }

  async createTask(userId, title) {
    await this.env.D1.prepare(
      "INSERT INTO tasks (user_id, title) VALUES (?, ?)"
    )
      .bind(userId, title)
      .run();
  }
}

export default class extends WorkerEntrypoint {
  async fetch(request, env) {
    return new Response("Hello from my to do app");
  }
}
```

You can then declare a Service binding directly to `AdminEntrypoint` in another Worker:

```toml
---
filename: wrangler.toml
---
name = "admin-app"

[[services]]
binding = "ADMIN"
service = "todo-app"
entrypoint = "AdminEntrypoint"
```

```js
export default {
  async fetch(request, env) {
    await env.ADMIN.createUser("aNewUser");
    return new Response("Hello from admin app");
  },
};
```

> You can learn more about how to configure D1 in the [D1 documentation](/d1/get-started/#4-bind-your-worker-to-your-d1-database)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can learn more about how to configure D1 in the [D1 documentation](/d1/get-started/#4-bind-your-worker-to-your-d1-database).
```

> You can try out a complete example of this to do app, as well as a Discord bot built with named entrypoints, by cloning the [cloudflare/js-rpc-and-entrypoints-demo repository](https://github.com/cloudflare/js-rpc-and-entrypoints-demo) from Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can try out a complete example of this to do app, as well as a Discord bot built with named entrypoints, by cloning the [cloudflare/js-rpc-and-entrypoints-demo repository](https://github.com/cloudflare/js-rpc-and-entrypoints-demo) from GitHub.
```

export class WorkerB extends WorkerEntrypoint {
  async add(a, b) { return a + b; }
}
```

Which the following Worker declares a binding to:

```toml
---
filename: wrangler.toml
---
name = "worker_a"
main = "./src/workerA.js"
services = [
  { binding = "WORKER_B", service = "worker_b" }
]
```

And then calls as an async method:

```js
---
filename: workerA.js
---
export default {
  async fetch(request, env) {
    const result = await env.WORKER_B.add(1, 2);
    return new Response(result);
  }
}
```

This provides you with a [RPC (Remote Procedure Call)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remote_procedure_call) interface, but without the need to learn, implement, or think about special protocols. The client, in this case Worker A, calls Worker B and tells it to execute a specific procedure using specific arguments that the client provides. This is accomplished with simple JavaScript classes.

## `WorkerEntrypoint`

When you write Workers that expose RPC methods, you must extend the `WorkerEntrypoint` class, as in the example below:

```js
import { WorkerEntrypoint } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class MyWorker extends WorkerEntrypoint {
  async add(a, b) { return a + b; }
}
```

> A new instance of the class `WorkerB` is created every time the Worker is called. Note that even though the Worker is implemented as a class, it is still stateless. The class instance is destroyed when the invocation of the Worker ends. If you need to persist or coordinate state in Workers, you should use [Durable Objects](/durable-objects).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A new instance of the class `MyWorker` is created every time the Worker is called. Note that even though the Worker is implemented as a class, it is still stateless. The class instance is destroyed when the invocation of the Worker ends. If you need to persist or coordinate state in Workers, you should use [Durable Objects](/durable-objects).
```

Reviewer 3: > The class instance is destroyed when the invocation of the Worker ends.

This is a sort of awkward statement since JavaScript doesn't have destructors and the object will of course be GC'd an arbitrary amount of time later. I would say that a new class instance is _created_ for each invocation.

Author: ```suggestion
A new instance of the class `WorkerB` is created every time the Worker is called. Note that even though the Worker is implemented as a class, it is still stateless — the class instance only lasts for the duration of the invocation. If you need to persist or coordinate state in Workers, you should use [Durable Objects](/durable-objects).
```

Author: https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/pull/13252/commits/da990cd67e0a2c69190fa17ce4fecfc12883b0e2

### Bindings (`env`)

> The [`env`](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/#what-is-a-binding) object is exposed as a class property of the `Work
> erEntrypoint` class.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The [`env`](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/#what-is-a-binding) object is exposed as a class property of the `WorkerEntrypoint` class.
```

export class MyWorker extends WorkerEntrypoint {
  async greet(name) {
    return this.env.GREETING + name;
  }
}
```

You can use any type of [binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/#what-is-a-binding) this way.

### Lifecycle methods (`ctx`)

The [`ctx`](/workers/runtime-apis/handlers/fetch/#lifecycle-methods) object is exposed as a class property of the `WorkerEntrypoint` class.

You can extend the lifetime of the invocation context by calling the `waitUntil()` method of the context object, [`ctx`](/workers/runtime-apis/handlers/fetch/#contextwaituntil). `waitUntil()` accepts a Promise-based task that is executed before the invocation context is terminated.

Use this when you want to perform other work without blocking giving a response to the client Worker that called your Entrypoint Worker. For example, you might return a response immediately, but fire off an event to an analytics provider:

```js
import { WorkerEntrypoint } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class MyWorker extends WorkerEntrypoint {
  async signup(email, name) {
    // sendEvent() will continue running, even after this method returns a value to the caller

>     this.ctx.waitUntil(sendEvent("signup", email))

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    this.ctx.waitUntil(this.#sendEvent("signup", email))
```

Reviewer 3: Seems like we're mixing TypeScript and JavaScript syntax here? JavaScript uses the `#` prefix on the name, TypeScript uses the `private` keyword?

Reviewer 3: I think our examples should probably stick to JavaScript.

    // Perform any other work
    return "Success";
  }

>   private async sendEvent(eventName, email) {

Reviewer 3: `private` is typescript syntax, not JavaScript. JavaScript uses a `#` prefix on the member name.

```suggestion
  async #sendEvent(eventName, email) {
```

    // Send event by making a subrequest with fetch()
  }
}
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> [Cloudflare Queues](/queues/) and [Tail Workers](/workers/observability/logging/tail-workers/) are purpose-built options for performing work out-of-band, without blocking returning a response back to the client Worker. In many cases, you can use them instead of `ctx.waitUntil()`.

Reviewer 3: Maybe we shouldn't be trying to describe `waitUntil()` here. Can we link to its definition elsewhere?

Any description of `waitUntil()` should probably also discuss the fact that it's unreliable, and that queues should be used instead for reliability, but that's getting pretty off-topic for RPC.

Author: Yeah this is a good callout.

I'll take what is here: https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/handlers/fetch/#contextwaituntil

And make top-level runtime APIs page on lifecycle methods. Can link to it from handlers, and also from here.

{{</Aside>}}

## Compatible Types

### Basic types

> Any type that is [Structured Cloneable](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm#supported_types) can be used as a parameter or return value of an RPC method. This includes most basic "value" types in JavaScript, including objects, arrays, strings and numbers.

Author: ```suggestion
Nearly all types that are [Structured Cloneable](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm#supported_types) can be used as a parameter or return value of an RPC method. This includes most basic "value" types in JavaScript, including objects, arrays, strings and numbers.
```

> You can also send and receive functions, class instances, ReadableStream, WriteableStream, Request and Response objects.

Reviewer 3: Note that class instances (of arbitrary application-defined classes) are defined as structured clonable, but are _not_ supported by our RPC (unless they extend `RpcTarget`). I tried to explain this in my version of the doc, seems like that text has been lost here.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also send and receive functions, class instances that extend `RpcTarget`, ReadableStream, WriteableStream, Request and Response objects.
```

> You can also send and receive functions, class instances, ReadableStream, WriteableStream, Request and Response objects.

Reviewer 3: Note that this is an incomplete list, and will become more incomplete over time. Can we word this to make that a bit clearer?

### Functions

#### Return functions from RPC methods

RPC methods can return functions. In the example below, `newCounter()` returns a function:

```js
---
filename: counterService.js
---
import { WorkerEntrypoint } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class CounterService extends WorkerEntrypoint {
  async newCounter() {
    let value = 0;
    return (increment = 0) => {
      value += increment;
      return value;
    }
  }
}
```

This function can then be called by the client Worker:

```toml
---
filename: wrangler.toml
---
name = "client_worker"
main = "./src/clientWorker.js"
services = [
  { binding = "COUNTER_SERVICE", service = "counter-service" }
]
```

```js
---
filename: clientWorker.js
---
export default {
  async fetch(request, env) {

>     using f = await env.COUNTER_SERVICE.newCounter();

Reviewer 4: Note we've introduced `using` here without explaining it. Will need to work that in somehow without it distracting from the broader point of passing functions back and forth

    await f(2);   // returns 2
    await f(1);   // returns 3
    const count = await f(-5);  // returns -2

    return new Response(count);
  }
}
```

> Notice how the function keeps its state. The function is a closure that has captured the local variable value.

Reviewer 4: This is true, though it's a closure on the server-side. I think if I was first reading this I would assume that it was a closure on the client-side. You go into detail about how this isn't the case further below, but I wonder if removing this sentence here might not be better to reduce confusion.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Think reads clearly starting at next sentence.

How does this work? The Workers runtime does not serialize the function itself. The function always runs as part of the Worker that defines `CounterService`, regardless of who called it.

<!-- TODO: May need to explain "stub" concept earlier -->

> Under the hood, the caller is not really calling the function itself, but calling a what is called a "stub". A "stub" is a [Proxy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Proxy) object that allows the client to call the remote service as if it were local, running in the same Worker. Behind the scenes, it calls back to the Worker that implements `CounterService` and asks it to execute the function closure that had been returned earlier.

Reviewer 4: Also we talk about stubs in the context of DO – we can probably borrow the same language, or merge the two or similar. I'm not even sure we need to say it's a Proxy (arguably an implementation detail).

Author: I really think `Proxy` helps people coming from JS and unfamiliar with RPC build a mental model of what a stub is. And helps people understand that what we've built actually uses standard APIs.

Note that:

> - Communication over Service bindings is always asyncrhonous. Even if the method declared on `CounterService` is not async, the client must call it as an async method.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Communication over Service bindings is always asynchronous. Even if the method declared on `CounterService` is not async, the client must call it as an async method.
```

Because of this, the words "client" and "server" can be ambiguous when talking about RPC. The "server" is a Durable Object or WorkerEntrypoint, and the "client" is the Worker that invoked the server via a binding. But, RPCs can flow both ways between the two. When talking about an individual RPC, you should instead use the words "caller" and "callee".

#### Return objects with methods
<!-- TODO: Should we more loudly point people to use classes here? -->

You can return objects from RPC methods that have methods that can be called by the client Worker. This allows you to provide the caller with a remote object that it can perform work with, and provide interfaces that are simple to work with, like [Durable Objects](/durable-objects), even if your state lives elsewhere, outside of Cloudflare.

Consider the following example:

```js
---
filename: company.js
---
import { WorkerEntrypoint } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class Company extends WorkerEntrypoint {
  async getCompanyByName(id) {
    // TODO: Maybe show example here that doesn't use D1 — to illustrate point about
    // how to use this to provide an SDK-like interface for remote state that is outside of DO/D1/etc..

>     this.id = id;

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
Remove this? (probably shouldn't be setting properties on non-DO workers – we might want to explicitly call that out as an anti-pattern?)

    const stmt = this.env.DB.prepare("SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE CompanyName = ?!").bind(id);
    const values = await stmt.first();
    return {
      ...values,
      sendEmail: () => {
        //...
      }
  }
}
```

And then calls as an async method:

```js
---
filename: clientWorker.js
---
export default {
  async fetch(request, env) {

>     const company = await env.COMPANY.getCompanyByName(name);

Reviewer 4: I suspect this will need a `using` as well

Author: ```suggestion
    using await env.COMPANY.getCompanyByName(name);
```

    await company.sendEmail();
    return new Response("Email sent!");
  }
}
```

### Class Instances

Objects which are instances of user-defined classes, with custom prototypes, can only be used as a parameter or return value of an RPC method if they extend the built-in `RpcTarget` class. Attempting to send a class instance that does not extend `RpcTarget` will throw an exception.

Consider the following example:

```toml
---
filename: wrangler.toml
---
name = "counter"
main = "./src/counter.js"
```

```js
---
filename: counter.js
---
import { WorkerEntrypoint, RpcTarget } from "cloudflare:workers";

class Counter extends RpcTarget {
  #value = 0;

  increment(amount) {
    this.#value += amount;
    return this.#value;
  }

  get value() {
    return this.#value;
  }
}

export class CounterService extends WorkerEntrypoint {
  async newCounter() {
    return new Counter();
  }
}
```

The method `increment` can be called directly by the client, as can the public property `value`:

```toml
---
filename: wrangler.toml
---
name = "client-worker"
main = "./src/clientWorker.js"
services = [

>   { binding = "COUNTER_SERVICE", service = "counter" }

Reviewer 3: These wrangler.toml examples are missing class names (named entrypoint specifier).

Author: ```suggestion
  { binding = "COUNTER_SERVICE", service = "counter", entrypoint = "CounterService" }
```

### ReadableStream, WriteableStream, Request, Response

You can send and receive [`ReadableStream`](/workers/runtime-apis/streams/readablestream/), [`WriteableStream`](/workers/runtime-apis/streams/writablestream/), [`Request`](/workers/runtime-apis/request/), and [`Response`](/workers/runtime-apis/response/) using RPC methods. When doing so, bytes in the body are automatically streamed with appropriate flow control.

Only byte-oriented streams are supported. TODO — explain clearly.

In all cases, ownership of the stream is transferred to the recipient. The sender can no longer read/write the stream after sending it. If the sender wishes to keep its own copy, it can use the [`tee()` method of `ReadableStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStream/tee) or the [`clone()` method of `Request` or `Response`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response/clone). Keep in mind that doing this may force the system to buffer bytes and lose the benefits of flow control.

## Promise pipelining

> <!-- TODO: Better heading title? -->

Reviewer 3: "Speculative calls"?

"Time travel"? (That's what Cap'n Proto calls it, as a joke. Not a serious suggestion here.)

This works because RPC methods return a custom ["Thenable"](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise#thenables) — a Promise-like object that conform to the semantics and interface of a JavaScript Promise. You can treat this in your own code just like you would a normal JavaScript Promise — the optimization is handled automatically behind the scenes.

This works when calling properties of objects returned by RPC methods as well. For example:

```js
---
filename: myService.js
---
import { WorkerEntrypoint } from "cloudflare:workers";

export class MyService extends WorkerEntrypoint {
  async foo() {
    return {
      bar: {
        baz: () => "qux"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

```js
---
filename: client.js
---
export default {
  async fetch(request, env) {
    using foo = await env.MY_SERVICE.foo();
    let baz = await foo.bar.baz();
    return new Response(baz);
  }
}
```

## Visibility of Methods and Properties

### Private properties

> [Private properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes/Private_properties) of classes that extend either `WorkerEntrypoint` or `RpcTarget` are not exposed to the caller, and cannot be called.

Reviewer 3: Current text seems to imply that private properties of a class extending `DurableObject`, or some other types of classes, might be exposed, which is of course not true.

```suggestion
[Private properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes/Private_properties) of classes are never exposed over RPC.
```

### Class instance properties

> When you send an instance of a class that extends `WorkerEntrypoint` or `RpcTarget`, the recipient can only access methods and properties declared on the class, not properties of the instance. For example:

Reviewer 3: Again sounds like you're explicitly excluding `DurableObject` here. Let's just not list all the possible superclasses?

```suggestion
When you send an instance of an application-defined class, the recipient can only access methods and properties declared on the class, not properties of the instance. For example:
```

```js
class Foo extends RpcTarget {
  constructor() {
    super();

    // i CANNOT be accessed over RPC
    this.i = 0;

    // funcProp CANNOT be called over RPC
    this.funcProp = () => {}
  }

  // value CAN be accessed over RPC
  get value() {
    return this.i;
  }

  // method CAN be called over RPC
  method() {}
}
```

This behavior is intentional —  it is intended to protect you from accidentally exposing private class internals. Generally, instance properties should be declared private, [by prefixing them with `#`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes/Private_properties). However, private properties are a relatively new feature of JavaScript, and are not consistently used.

> The RPC interface between two of your Workers may be a security boundary, we need to be extra-careful, so instance properties are always private when communicating between Workers using RPC, whether or not they have the `#` prefix. You can always declare an explicit getter at the class level if you wish to expose the property, as shown above.

Reviewer 5: +so i will understand the situation that i am suffering for my whole life. i didn't expect involve my own family.

This is not a limitation of the Worker runtime, but a limitation inherent to any distributed system. In a distributed system, the garbage collector has no visibility into the remote object graph nor any idea when the remote end is encountering memory pressure.

This why the examples above implement the `using` declaration — a new JavaScript language feature called [Explicit Resource Management](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-explicit-resource-management).

### Explicit Resource Management

[Explicit Resource Management](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-explicit-resource-management) is a Stage 3 TC39 proposal that lets you explicitly declare when a given resource can be disposed of.

If a variable is declared with `using`, when the variable is no longer in scope, the variable can be safely disposed of. The following code:

```js
{
  using counter = await env.COUNTER_SERVICE.newCounter();
  await counter.increment(2);
  await counter.increment(4);
}
```
...is equivalent to:

```js
{

>   let counter = await env.COUNTER_SERVICE.newCounter();

Reviewer 4: My reading of the spec is that it's a `const`
```suggestion
  const counter = await env.COUNTER_SERVICE.newCounter();
```

Reviewer 3: FWIW I'm of the opinion that `const` is confusing when applied to values that aren't deeply immutable. I kind of prefer to use `let` everywhere except when declaring actual constants.

But I may be in the minority on this.
